My four years at Iowa State University have been times of many opportunities and many challenges. These have developed a strong set of skills I can apply to any problem. My coursework has had an emphasis on strong technical skills applied to team goals. This focus has allowed me to grow as a leader in various clubs and multiple personal technical and service-based projects.

Problem Solving: Design systems or process, solve engineering problems
The lab portions of my classes have focused almost entirely on the process of designing a solution to a problem. Problems range from vague descriptions to specific lists of requirements.  Solutions even vary from a carefully constructed process of a solution to a full system implementation to solve the problem. Reflecting on my experiences in these labs, I am happily surprised by the range of problem and solution types with which I have been challenged. In my embedded systems class, my team met the rather abstract challenge of programming a robot to navigate an obstacle, using only sensor feedback to make decisions and sense the robot's environment. We broke this problem down into modular components and defined success criteria for each stage of the development. Given sometimes faulty and often inaccurate sensors and actuators, we calibrated and compromised until we could successfully and consistently navigate the robot through a remote terminal. We were the first team to finish, over a week before the deadline, and received full marks on the project.

201, 230, 288, 309

Teamwork:  work in groups
381, 288

The true power of an engineering education is demonstrated when working with a group toward a common goal.  At ISU I have learned how to take a complex and challenging problem, create a plan, and complete a project before a deadline. In my computer architecture class, we were tasked with designing the microarchitecture for a subset of the MIPS 32-bit instruction set. We were able to work efficiently by clearly defining each step of our process in the design phase of the project so we encountered minimal setbacks along the way. We exploited our individual strengths to work faster and smarter. We overcame common challenges of working with a shared architecture diagram by using collaborative drawing tools online and defining precise standards for markup and modification. This is considered one of the most challenging projects in our degree, and we completed early, missing no points along the way.

Conscientiousness:  global/societal conscientiousness of solutions, recognize contemporary issues
studying abroad
309

I believe that an important part of engineering is understanding the societal context and impact of problems and their solutions. During my sophomore year I took the opportunity to study abroad at the University of Birmingham in the UK and travel extensively throughout Europe. Living in a foreign country and interacting with people of many different cultures taught me to be more aware of the subtleties that can affect communication and understanding of problems. When designing software applications difference in culture, context, and education can vastly affect usability. I am on the team that developed the online attendance system for the ISU marching band. It is currently in use with the group. We performed extensive usability testing by recruiting volunteers from our target audience and having them perform various tasks from a full list of features of the system. Both during this phase and also some after deployment, we found that users with different backgrounds with respect to computer usage had varying rates of ease using the system. We integrated feedback tools into the system and were able to fine-tune various portions of the interface to alleviate any confusion. Clear communication to the end user through our interface is vital. I learned a lot from this experience am better prepared to deliver a clean and clear user interface.

Professionalism: ethics and professionalism
dean's leadership seminar
phil 201
hkn work with industry
attendance

Through projects and involvement with student organizations, I have developed the skills to interact professionally in industrial and personal settings. In developing the ISU marching band's attendance system, I worked closely with the directors of the band, defining the user requirements and deliverables of the system. I learned the importance of stating a problem concisely and the necessity of discussing our software and the implications of various design choices abstractly so as to get proper feedback and decisions from clients. This project in particular helped me to refine the art of compromise with respect to design choices and system features. Developing this application also brought to the forefront the importance of software security and reliability. Using this system with the personal information of over 300 students leaves the developers with a responsibility to protect that data ethically and within FERPA laws and university regulations. I have learned to critically analyze such ethical situations partially through studying ethics in introductory philosophy and discussing case studies of engineering business in a one-semester leadership seminar with the Dean of the College of Engineering.  


Extracurricular Learning: resources used outside of class, extracurricular university programs impact on lifelong learning, new skills to develop confidence in taking risks
marching band, attendance

I am a very involved student and member of my community. I take pride in developing the goals and members of the organizations of which I am a member. I have served on the cabinet of Tau Beta Sigma (a music service group), Eta Kappa Nu (the computer engineering honor society), and Collegiate 4-H. Managing the many responsibilities has refined  my organizational and time management skills. My involvement with these groups must be balanced with my academic goals and responsibilities. The skill of prioritization is often difficult, but essential my success as an engaged student. As a member of the marching band, I understand the value of each hour of the week during a busy semester and have learned to maximize the effectiveness of my time. Being a member of the ISU marching band takes 10-15 hours a week, plus 12 hours on any weekend we have a home football game. This heavy involvement is a risk not to be taken lightly, especially when taken with a schedule of 20 credits (as I did one sleepless semester). I have reflected carefully on my decisions throughout my college career and taken each step with intentionality. I am confident that my decisions have led me to maximize my experience at ISU, and my classroom experiences combined with my extracurricular involvement have helped me become a confident individual, engaged citizen, and prepared engineer.

what would I change?

